A network design is the planning of the implementation of a computer network infrastructure. It is generally developed by network designers, engineers, and IT administrators and the network design is done before the implementation of a network infrastructure. In other words, the network design is the planning phase before implementation. The network design also involves evaluating and understanding how all the elements of a network link together (from routers, switches, and servers to desktops, laptops and printers) and how they can be made to run as efficiently as possible. A well-designed network can bring increased operational efficiency. 

An Enterprise network is the backbone that helps connect computers and related devices cross departments and workgroup networks, facilitating insight and data accessibility. An enterprise network reduces communication protocols, facilitating system and device interoperability, as well as improvised internal and external enterprise data management. It is also known as a corporate network. To help with the physical implementation process, the network design should be drawn out as a network diagram, which then acts as a guide for installation and the building of the network. 

The increasing demand for high performance network (i.e. high throughput and low delays on an end- to-end basis, a degree of fairness in accessing available channel bandwidth among active users on the network, and a quality of service provisioning) has challenged network researchers to design network architectures capable of delivering a high quality of service to end users. The network infrastructure design becomes critical part for some IT organizations in recent years. An important network design consideration for today's networks is to have the potential to support future expansions, reliable and scalable networks. This requires the designer to define the client's unique situation, particularly the current technology, application, and data architecture. 
There are many types of campus network designs which provide high-availability, flexibility, scalability and manageability. The design of each option depends on the functionality available in the network nodes which are varied by the network designer or architect to achieve the optimal performance in each network. The Top Down design model is a discipline that grew out of the success of structure software programming and structured system analysis. The main goal of structured system analysis is to more accurately represent user needs, which are unfortunately often ignored or misrepresented. Another goal is to make the project manageable by dividing it into modules that can be more easily maintained and changed. The model provides a modular topology of building block that allow the network to easily evolve. Top Down Network Design advantages begins with the focus on an organization’s specific goals and requirements for network applications and services, while allowing potential future needs to be considered and accounted for. 
